The Bulbasaur Family

Bulbasaur

Number: 001
Type: Grass / Poison
Abilities: Overgrow / Chlorophyll (hidden)
Height: 2'04"
Weight: 15.2 lbs
Pokédex Color: green

Bulbasaur is a dual-type Grass/Poison Pokémon introduced in Generation I.

It evolves into Ivysaur starting at level 16, which evolves into Venusaur starting at level 32.

Along with Charmander and Squirtle, Bulbasaur is one of three starter Pokémon of Kanto available at the beginning of Pokémon Red, Green, Blue, FireRed, and LeafGreen.

Biology

Bulbasaur is a small, quadrupedal amphibian Pokémon that has blue-green skin with darker patches. It has red eyes with white pupils, pointed, ear-like structures on top of its head, and a short, blunt snout with a wide mouth. A pair of small, pointed teeth are visible in the upper jaw when its mouth is open. Each of its thick legs ends with three sharp claws. On Bulbasaur's back is a green plant bulb, which is grown from a seed planted there at birth. The bulb also conceals two slender, tentacle-like vines and provides it with energy through photosynthesis as well as from the nutrient-rich seeds contained within.

Ivysaur

Number: 002
Type: Grass / Poison
Abilities: Overgrow / Chlorophyll (hidden)
Height: 3'03"
Weight: 28.7 lbs
Pokédex Color: green

Ivysaur is a dual-type Grass/Poison Pokémon introduced in Generation I.

It evolves from Bulbasaur starting at level 16 and evolves into Venusaur starting at level 32.

Biology

Ivysaur is a quadrupedal amphibian Pokémon that has blue-green skin with darker patches. On top of its head are pointed ears with black insides and it has narrow red eyes. Ivysaur has a short, rounded snout with a wide mouth and two pointed teeth in its upper jaw. Each of its feet has three claws on them. The bulb on its back has bloomed into a large pink bud. A short brown trunk surrounded by leafy green fronds supports the bud.

The weight of the plant prevents Ivysaur from running fast and standing on its hind legs and forces its legs to grow sturdy. When its flower is ready to bloom, it gives off a distinct, strong sweet-smelling aroma and starts swelling. Ivysaur will also start spending more time in sunlight in preparation for its upcoming evolution. Exposure to sunlight adds to the strength of both Ivysaur and its plant. Ivysaur's natural habitat is plains.

Venusaur

Number: 003
Type: Grass / Poison
Abilities: Overgrow / Chlorophyll (hidden)
Height: 6'07"
Weight: 220.5 lbs
Pokédex Color: green

Venusaur is a dual-type Grass/Poison Pokémon introduced in Generation I.

It evolves from Ivysaur starting at level 32. It is the final form of Bulbasaur.

Biology

Venusaur is a squat, quadrupedal amphibian Pokémon with bumpy, blue-green skin. It has small, circular red eyes; a short, blunt snout; and a wide mouth with two pointed teeth in the upper jaw and four in the lower jaw. On top of its head are small, pointed ears with reddish pink insides. It has three clawed toes on each foot. The bud on its back has bloomed into a large pink, white-spotted flower. The flower is supported by a thick, brown trunk surrounded by green fronds. A female Venusaur will have a seed in the center of its flower.

Venusaur uses its flower to catch the sun's rays to convert them into energy, which causes the flower to become more vibrant. The flower releases a soothing scent that attracts Pokémon and calms emotions. This scent becomes stronger after a rainy day. In the anime, Venusaur has demonstrated the ability to manipulate nature, release several vines from its back, and lead evolution ceremonies for Bulbasaur and Ivysaur. This Pokémon is rarely found in the wild, but it has been known to inhabit grasslands.

Evolution Line

1. Bulbasaur
2. Ivysaur (lvl. 16)
3. Venusaur (lvl. 36)