The Charmander Family

Charmander

Number: 004
Type: Fire
Abilities: Blaze / Solar Power (hidden)
Height: 2'00"
Weight: 18.7 lbs
Pokédex Color: red

Charmander (Japanese: ヒトカゲ Hitokage) is a Fire-type Pokémon introduced in Generation I.

It evolves into Charmeleon starting at level 16, which evolves into Charizard starting at level 36.

Along with Bulbasaur and Squirtle, Charmander is one of three starter Pokémon of Kanto available at the beginning of Pokémon Red, Green, Blue, FireRed, and LeafGreen.

Biology

Charmander is a bipedal, reptilian Pokémon with a primarily orange body and blue eyes. Its underside from the chest down and the soles of its feet are cream-colored. It has two small fangs visible in its upper jaw and two smaller fangs in its lower jaw. A fire burns at the tip of this Pokémon's slender tail and has blazed there since Charmander's birth. The flame can be used as an indication of Charmander's health and mood, burning brightly when the Pokémon is strong, weakly when it is exhausted, wavering when it is happy, and blazing when it is enraged. It is said that Charmander dies if its flame goes out. However, if the Pokémon is healthy, the flame will continue to burn even if it gets a bit wet and is said to steam in the rain.

Charmander can be found in hot, mountainous areas. However, it is found far more often in the ownership of Trainers. As shown in Pokémon Snap, Charmander exhibits pack behavior, calling others of its species if it finds food.

Charmeleon

Number: 005
Type: Fire
Abilities: Blaze / Solar Power (hidden)
Height: 3'07"
Weight: 41.9 lbs
Pokédex Color: red

Charmeleon (Japanese: リザード Lizardo) is a Fire-type Pokémon introduced in Generation I.

It evolves from Charmander starting at level 16 and evolves into Charizard starting at level 36.

Biology

Charmeleon is a bipedal, reptilian Pokémon. It has dark red scales and a cream underside from the chest down. It has blue eyes and a long snout with a slightly hooked tip. On the back of its head is a single horn-like protrusion. It has relatively long arms with three sharp claws. Its short legs have plantigrade feet with three claws and cream-colored soles. The tip of its long, powerful tail has a flame burning on it. The temperature rises to unbearable levels if Charmeleon swings its tail.

Charmeleon has a vicious nature and will constantly seek out opponents. Strong opponents excite this Pokémon, causing it to spout bluish-white flames that torch its surroundings. However, it will relax once it has won a battle. It is rare in the wild, but it can be found in mountainous areas.

Charizard

Number: 006
Type: Fire / Flying
Abilities: Blaze / Solar Power (hidden)
Height: 5'07"
Weight: 199.5 lbs
Pokédex Color: red

Charizard is a dual-type Fire/Flying Pokémon introduced in Generation I.

It evolves from Charmeleon starting at level 36. It is the final form of Charmander.

Biology

Charizard is a draconic, bipedal Pokémon. It is primarily orange with a cream underside from the chest to the tip of its tail. It has a long neck, small blue eyes, slightly raised nostrils, and two horn-like structures protruding from the back of its rectangular head. There are two fangs visible in the upper jaw when its mouth is closed. Two large wings with blue-green undersides sprout from its back, and a horn-like appendage juts out from the top of the third joint of each wing. A single wing-finger is visible through the center of each wing membrane. Charizard's arms are short and skinny compared to its robust belly, and each limb has three white claws. It has stocky legs with cream-colored soles on each of its plantigrade feet. The tip of its long, tapering tail burns with a sizable flame.

Charizard flies in search of powerful opponents to battle, and its fire will burn hotter as it gains experience. Its fiery breath is capable of melting boulders, massive glaciers, and has been known to accidentally cause forest fires. Though its fiery breath is hot, it never turns it on any opponent weaker than itself. Charizard typically inhabits mountains and valleys, such as the Charicific Valley in Johto. The anime has shown that only a weak Charizard would show off its power. It also showed that Charizard can swim underwater, with Pokémon Origins further showing that the flame on the tip of the tail can still keep burning underwater. The wings of Charizard can carry it to an altitude of 4,600 feet (1,400 meters).

Evolution Line

1. Charmander
2. Charmeleon (lvl. 16)
3. Charizard (lvl. 36)
