The Squirtle Family

Squirte

Number: 007
Type: Water
Abilities: Torrent / Rain Dish (hidden)
Height: 1'08"
Weight: 19.8 lbs
Pokédex Color: blue

Squirtle is a Water-type Pokémon introduced in Generation I.

It evolves into Wartortle starting at level 16, which evolves into Blastoise starting at level 36.

Along with Bulbasaur and Charmander, Squirtle is one of three starter Pokémon of Kanto available at the beginning of Pokémon Red, Green, Blue, FireRed, and LeafGreen.

Biology

Squirtle is a small reptilian Pokémon that resembles a light-blue turtle. While it typically walks on its two short legs, it has been shown to run on all fours in Super Smash Bros. Brawl. It has large, purplish or reddish eyes and a slightly hooked upper lip. Each of its hands and feet have three pointed digits. The end of its long tail curls inward. Its body is encased by a tough shell that forms and hardens after birth. This shell is brown on the top, pale yellow on the bottom, and has a thick white ridge between the two halves.

Squirtle's shell is a useful tool. It can withdraw into the shell for protection or to sleep. The grooved, rounded shape helps to reduce water resistance, allowing the Pokémon to swim at high speeds. Squirtle can spray foamy water from its mouth with great accuracy. Squirtle is scarce in the wild, although it can be found around small ponds and lakes. The anime has shown that it can be found living on secluded islands with other members of its evolutionary line. Sharpedo is a natural predator of Squirtle. In Generation II, Skull Bash was its signature move.

Wartortle

Number: 008
Type: Water
Abilities: Torrent / Rain Dish (hidden)
Height: 3'03"
Weight: 49.6 lbs
Pokédex Color: blue

Wartortle is a Water-type Pokémon introduced in Generation I.

It evolves from Squirtle starting at level 16 and evolves into Blastoise starting at level 36.

Biology

Wartortle is a bipedal, indigo reptilian Pokémon similar to a turtle. It has brown eyes, a dark blue streak on each cheek, and two sharp teeth protruding from its upper jaw. It has three clawed fingers and pointed toes. On each side of its head are feather-like ears covered in pale blue fur. A brown shell with a pale yellow underside encases its body. A thick, white rim separates the upper and lower halves of the shell. An older Wartortle may have scars and algae growing on its shell. Poking out of the bottom of the shell is a thick, wavy tail that also has light blue fur and cannot be fully withdrawn into its shell. Its tail fur will darken with age. Its tail is a popular symbol of longevity and good luck, making this Pokémon popular with the elderly.

Because they are larger than Squirtle and have a larger shell, Wartortle have a more difficult time walking on land and keeping their balance in the water. To maintain balance while swimming at high speeds, Wartortle moves its furry ears and tail as both rudders and balancing rods. Air can be stored in its fur for extended underwater diving. It hides in water when hunting and emerges to surprise its prey. The anime has shown that Wartortle can be found living in colonies on islands, but its preferred habitat seems to be freshwater ponds and lakes. In Generation II, Skull Bash was its signature move.

Blastoise

Number: 009
Type: Water
Abilities: Torrent / Rain Dish (hidden)
Height: 5'03"
Weight: 188.5 lbs
Pokédex Color: blue

Blastoise is a Water-type Pokémon introduced in Generation I.

It evolves from Wartortle starting at level 36. It is the final form of Squirtle.

Biology

Blastoise is a large, bipedal turtle Pokémon. Its body is blue and is mostly hidden by its tough, brown shell. This shell has a cream-colored underside and a white ridge encircling its arms and separating the upper and lower halves. Two powerful water cannons reside at the top of its shell over its shoulders. These cannons can be extended or withdrawn. Blastoise's head has triangular ears that are black on the inside, small brown eyes, and a cream-colored lower jaw. Its arms are thick, and it has three claws on each hand. Its feet have three claws on the front and one on the back. Poking out of the bottom of its shell is a stubby tail.

The powerful cannons on this Pokémon's back are capable of producing water blasts that can pierce steel and concrete and can be used for high-speed charges. Blastoise deliberately makes itself heavy to withstand these powerful blasts and to crush its opponents. In Generation II, Skull Bash was its signature move. The anime has shown that Blastoise can take the role of a leader in large groups of Squirtle and Wartortle. Its preferred habitat seems to be freshwater ponds and lakes.

Evolution Line

1. Squirtle
2. Wartortle (lvl. 16)
3. Blastoise (lvl. 36)
